1946

 

ENIAC

Bush had devised a com-
puter that made use of
radio tubes as electronic
switches in addition to the
usual mechanical parts (see
1930).

The obvious next step
was to make an entirely
electronic computer, with
no moving mechanical
parts at all. This was done
by the American engineers
John William Mauchly
(1907-1980) and John Pre-
sper Eckart, Jr. (b. 1919),
who devised the first practi-
cal electronic digital com-
puter in 1946. It was called
ENIAC (electronic numerical
integrator and computer).

It was an enormous, en-
ergy-guzzling device,
weighing 30 tons and tak-
ing up 1,500 square feet of
space. Though it was a won-
der of its time, ENIAC was
retired some nine years
after it had been set up. It
was by then hopelessly ob-
solete, for its descendants
were growing steadily
smaller, cheaper, more ef-
ficient, and much more ca-
pable.

Microwave
Reflection from
the Moon

Thanks to radar, it was pos-
sible to detect microwave
reflections from airplanes,
and from the reflections to
calculate the distance and
direction of the airplanes.
In principle, there was no
reason this could not be
done for an astronomical
body.

In 1946 a Hungarian
scientist, Zoltan Lajos Bay,
sent a beam of microwaves
to the Moon and detected
the reflection. The time it
took for the reflection to re-
turn could be used to deter-
mine the distance of the
Moon at the time of reflec-
tion with far greater preci-
sion than had ever been
possible before.

Nuclear
Magnetic
Resonance

It is possible for chemical
substances to absorb cer-
tain frequencies of micro-
wave radiation when those
substances are in a strong,
steady, and homogeneous
magnetic field. The frequen-

cies that are absorbed de-
pend on the magnetic
properties of the atoms in-
volved.

In particular, atomic
nuclei act as tiny spinning
magnets, and these can be
lined up in a magnetic
field, to strengthen the mi-
crowave absorption. The
Swiss-born American physi-
cist Felix Bloch (1905â€”
1983) and the American
physicist Edward Mills Pur-
cell (b. 1912) independently
developed this technique in
1946, and for it they shared
the Nobel Prize for physics
in 1952,

The technique, named
nuclear magnetic resonance
(NMR), provided a noninva-
sive way of studying the in-
terior of living organisms.
Since microwaves are far
less energetic than X rays,
they are correspondingly
less likely to do damage to
tissues. Then too, X rays
are best at detecting mas-
sive atoms, of which there
are few in the body, while
NMR detects light atoms,
particularly hydrogen, and
these are plentiful in the
body.

The use of NMR is
growing more common, but
because of public fears of
the word nuelear (thinking
that it implies the existence
