 

 

LT

electrically charged parti-
cles.

That decision held up
in all subsequent studies.

High Pressure

Scientists starting with
Boyle (see 1662) had used
pressure to study the com-
pression of gases or, as Far-
aday had, to bring about
the liquefaction of gases
(see 1823).

A French physicist,
Emile Hilaire Amagat
(1841-1915), was the first,
though, to attempt to reach
really high pressures and
study the behavior of mate-
rials under those condi-
tions. He began his
experiments in 1880 and

 

soon managed to attain a
pressure equal to 3,000 at-
mospheres. It set a record
and laid the groundwork
for further work in decades
to come at still more ex-
treme pressures.

Piezoelectricity

In 1880 a French chemist,
Pierre Curie (1859-1906),
noted that if a crystal of
quartz was placed under
pressure, an electric poten-
tial appeared across it. If,
in reverse, the crystal was
subjected to an electric po-
tential, it would compress
as though under pressure.
If the electric potential
changed rapidly, the crys-
tal would compress and ex-

pand in time with the
change, and the vibration
of the crystal would set up
sound waves that oscillated
too rapidly to be heard.
Curie had thus discovered a
way of producing ultrasonic
vibrations.

The manner in which
this is done—the interac-
tion of pressure and electric
potentials—is known as pi-
ezoelectricity, where piezo
comes from the Greek word
for “pressure.” Crystals
with piezoelectric proper-
ties came to form an essen-
tial portion of sound-
electronic devices such as
microphones and record
players.
