data grew mysterious. Neu-

tron stars are clustered,
while the bursts were dis-
tributed evenly throughout
space, leaving scientists
puzzling over their nature
and their distance from
Earth.

During its first year in
orbit, GRO recorded
gamma rays from quasars
that lie between 10 billion
and 20 billion light years
from Earth and that emit
10 to 100 million times the
total gamma-ray output of

the Milky Way. It also de-
tected a gamma-ray pulsar
with a magnetic field tril-
lions of times stronger than
Earth'â€™s.

 

 

 

 

1992

 

Background
Microwave
Radiation

Gamow (see 1948) had first
postulated and Penzias and
Wilson (see 1964) had con-
firmed the existence of

background microwave ra-
diation, which permeates

space as the afterglow of
the big bang. But cosmogo-
nists needed data on the
makeup of the radiation to
bolster theories about the
formation of galaxies and
other large structures in
the Universe. Thus the sci-
entific world eagerly
awaited results from the
Cosmic Background Ex-

plorer (COBE), an Ameri-
can satellite launched in
November 1989 into an
orbit 560 miles above
Earth, for COBE's instru-
ments were |00 times more
sensitive than previous de-
vices, At first COBE re-
ported that the background
radiation was perfectly
smooth.

e

 
