more forcible than any
natural flood could have
been. Those who believed
this were called

Neptunists.

In 1752, however, a
French geologist, Jean-
Etienne Guettard (1715~
1786), was convinced by his
observations that the rocks

he saw in central France
had experienced great heat
at some time in the past.
This began the belief in
heat as the causative factor.

 

1754

 

Carbon Dioxide

Carbon dioxide had been
studied by Helmont (see
1624), but until this time it
had only been detected as a
product of combustion or
fermentation.

In 1754, however, a
Scottish chemist, Joseph
Black (1728-1799), in his
thesis for a medical degree
(which he published two
years later), described how
he had formed a gas by
strongly heating limestone
(calcium carbonate), leav-
ing lime (calcium oxide) be-
hind. The gas he produced
would combine with cal-
cium oxide to form calcium
carbonate once again. He

called the gas fixed air, be-
cause it could be fixed
(made to take on a solid
form) by combination with
calcium oxide. Fixed air
turned out to be carbon di-
oxide.

It was clear, then, that
gases could be formed from
ordinary solids and that
they could take part in
chemical reactions. That
went far toward converting
gases from mysteries to
chemicals.

In fact, since calcium
oxide slowly turned to cal-
cium carbonate if simply al-
lowed to remain exposed to
air, it was clear that there
must be some small frac-
tion of the air that was car-

bon dioxide. That was the
first indication that air was
not a simple substance (an
element) but a mixture of
different gases.

In studying the action
of heat on calcium carbon-
ate, by the way, Black mea-
sured the loss of weight
involved in its conversion
to calcium oxide. He also
measured the amount of
acid that a given quantity
of calcium carbonate would
neutralize. This was the
first application of quanti-
tative analysis to chemical
reactions, a chemical wave
of the future that could
come to fruition in a quar-
ter of a century.
