 

 

 

1614

 

Logarithms

Numbers can be written in
exponential form. Thus, 24
is four twos multiplied to-
gether, or 16; while 25 is
five twos multiplied to-
gether, or 32. Nine twos
multiplied together, or 2°,
is 512. Since 16 X 32 =
512, we can say that 2% X
25 = 27, Instead of multi-
plying numbers, we add ex-
ponents. This turns out to
be a general rule. In the
same way, instead of divid-
ing numbers, we can sub-
tract exponents.

If 16 is 2% and 32 is 25,
then 22 must be 2 to some
exponent that lies between
4 and 5. If we had the expo-
nents for all numbers listed

in a convenient table, multi-

plication would be reduced
to addition, and division
to subtraction, with a

 

great saving in time and
trouble

The Scottish mathema-
tician John N r (1550-
1617) spent years working
out formulas that would
give him appropriate expo-
nents for a great many num-
bers, and he called them
logarithms (from Greek
words meaning “propor-
tionate numbers”). In 1614,
Napier published his table
of logarithms and they at
once became useful in all

 

 

 

sorts of complicated com-
putations that scientists
were forced to make. Noth-
ing better was to come
along for over three centu-
ries.

Metabolism

In 1614 an Italian physi-
cian, Santorio Santorio
(1561-1636), better known

 

by his [
Sanctorius, 1

  
  
   
  

himself. He |

 

aborate

and sat

 

ate and drank
and elimir astes. He
found that

weight than the wastes

LOSt more

alone would account for

and he attributed this

 

“insensible perspiration
that is, perspiration that
evapc

;7\'()duu‘\1 so that it was not

ited as fast

1L was

   

seen

Sanctorius's ¢
mentation was the very be-
sinning of the study ol
metabolis which deals
with the chemical char
that go on within livi

 

 

 

 
 

Sue

 
