1718

Stellar Motion

Ever since the motion of
the Sun, Moon, and planets
relative to the stars gener-
ally had been discovered in
Sumerian times, the chief

quality of the thousands of
remaining stars in the sky
had seemed to be that they
did not move relative to
each other. They were des-
ignated as the fixed stars

fixed to the solid firmament

of the sky, that is—w hlle

the various planets ci

Earth below the firmament.
In 1718, however, Hal-

ley (see 1678) determined

the position of the bright
stars Sirius, Procyon, and
Arcturus and observed that
they had changed their po-
sition markedly since Greek
times. They had even
changed position percepti-
bly since the time of T
Brahe (see 1572)

It didn’t seem possible
that the Greeks had made
mistakes that large in re-
cording their data, and it
was even less possible that
Tycho had made such mis-
takes. Halley therefore con-
cluded that the stars were
not fixed but moving. It
was because they were so

 

distant that their “proper
motions” were too small to
ob ¢ until they

mulated over extended peri-
ods of time.

With Halley, then, tt
firmament—the solid vault
of the sky that everyone
had accepted till then, ar
that even had the authority
of the Bib did not exist.
The stars e, rather, like
a swarm of very distant
and widely spread-out bees,
each moving at its own
speed and in its own direc-
tion.
