the English physicist John
Michell (1724—-1793) noted
that earthquakes frequently
appeared in volcanic areas.
He felt that underground
water might be boiled by
volcanic heat at times, and
that it was the imprisoned
steam that caused earth-
quakes.

Furthermore, he said,
the earthquakes set up
waves that traveled
through the Earth at some
measurable speed. If the
time at which waves
reached different points
were recorded, the point of
origin (or epicenter) of the
earthquake could be deter-
mined. Epicenters, he sug-
gested, could exist in the
rocks beneath the sea, and
it was one of these that had
destroyed Lisbon.

All of Michell’s ideas
were pretty sound, so that
he is known as the founder
of seismology.

Heat Capacity

Until this time it was as-
sumed that as more heat
poured into a substance, its

temperature rose steadily,
and that given quantities of
different materials all rose
in temperature at the same
rate. Why not? Heat was
considered a very subtle
fluid, and it made sense to
suppose that it filled all sub-
stances equally, so that all
given weights of substances
had the same capacity for
containing heat.

In 1760, however,
Black (see 1754) showed
that this notion, however
sensible it seemed, was
quite wrong. When he
heated equal weights of
mercury and water over the
same flame, the mercury’s
temperature went up twice
as fast as the water’s tem-
perature did. To Black, this
indicated that the heat ca-
pacity of mercury was less
than the heat capacity of
water, so that mercury was
more rapidly filled with
heat.

It followed that if equal
quantities of mercury and
water were lTli,\'Cd. \‘\'thC
mercury was at the higher
temperature, the final tem-
perature would not be pre-

cisely midway between but
would be below the mid-
point, because the quantity
of heat present in the mer-
cury and transferred to the
water would not fill the
water as much as it had the
mercury.

This started the scien-
tific study of heat, as dis-
tinct from temperature.

  

Pathology

In 1760 the Italian anato-
mist Giovanni Battista Mor-
gagni (1682-1771)
published a book in which
he described the 640 post-
mortems he had conducted
in his long life. He carefully
detailed the lives of his pa-
tients, the presence and de-
velopment of disease, and
the manner of dying and
tried to interpret every-
thing from the anatomical
point of view. As a result,
he is usually considered the
founder of modern pathol-
ogy.

 

 
