 

 

ander Ivanovich Oparin
(1894-1980), who, living
under a government that
was officially atheist, had
no inhibitions in doing so.
He began his investigation
of the subject in 1922, sug-
gesting that life developed
through the slow buildup of
organic substances from
the simple compounds pres-
ent in the primordial ocean
and atmosphere.

Nerve Fibers

The electric currents in
nerves are tiny, so tiny that
it was difficult to study
them in detail. The Ameri-

can physiologists Joseph
Erlanger (1874—1965) and
Herbert Spencer Gasser
(1888-1963) developed deli-
cate methods of detection
using Braun'’s oscilloscope
(see 1897) to aid in the stud-
ies.

Beginning in 1922, they
determined the rates at
which nerve fibers con-
ducted their impulses and
showed that the velocity of
the impulse varied directly
with the thickness of the
fiber. For this, the two men
shared the Nobel Prize for
medicine and physiology in
1944,

Expansion of
the Universe

Five years earlier, Sitter
had suggested that Ein-
stein’s equations of general
relativity implied a sponta-
neously expanding Uni-
verse (see 1916). Sitter’s
work, however, applied to a
Universe empty of matter.

In 1922 the Russian
mathematician Alexander
Alexandrovich Friedmann
(1888—1925) went further.
Solving the equations for a
Universe containing mass,
he showed that it too would
naturally expand.
