 

was such that absolute zero
should be reached at —273°
C.(The modern figure is
—=273.15° C).

Kelvin proposed that a
new absolute scale of tem-
perature be created, based
on absolute zero as the zero
point. There would then be
no negative temperatures.
Each degree would be
equal to a Celsius degree,
so that the freezing point of
water would be 273.15° A
(for Absolute). Later scien-
tists made it 273.15° K
(where the K stands for Kel-
vin).

The concept of absolute
temperature turned out to
be essential to the science
of thermodynamics.

Crab Nebula

Lord Rosse (see 1845),
whose giant telescope had
detected the spiral nebulas,
studied the first nebulosity
(M1) on the list Messier had
prepared (see 1771). It was
a curiously irregular patch
of fog that marked the spot
at which a bright new star

had appeared in 1054, al-
though that event had gone
unnoticed in Europe.

To Rosse, the foggy
patch seemed to have nu-
merous crooked legs like
those of a crab and he
called it the Crab nebula in
consequence, a name it has
kept ever since. As time
passed, the Crab nebula
grew more and more inter-
esting to astronomers until
it was stated (with some ex-
aggeration, perhaps) that
all of astronomy could be
divided into two equal
parts: one, the Crab nebula,
and two, everything else.

Spectral Line
Shift

Six years earlier, Doppler
had explained the Doppler
effect with respect to sound
(see 1842). Now the French
physicist Armand-Hip-
polyte-Louis Fizeau (1819—
1896) argued that the same
effect would apply to any
wave motion, particularly
that of light.

If the light of the spec-
trum were unbroken, this
would not be noticeable,
since if the source were re-
ceding from us, ordinary
visible light would move
past the red boundary and
become invisible, while in-
visible ultraviolet light
would move past the violet
boundary and become visi-
ble. It would work in the op-
posite direction if a light
source were approaching
us, and in neither case
would there be any appar-
ent change.

There are dark lines in
the spectra, however, and
these would shift their posi-
tion. That would be notice-
able. The lines would shift
toward the red if the light
source were receding and
toward the violet if the
light source were ap-
proaching. This is some-
times called the Doppler-
Fizeau effect.

It was the red shift that
proved of particular impor-
tance to astronomy.

 
