 

1939

 

 

Nuclear Fission

Fermi had bombarded ura-
nium with slow neutrons in
the hope of obtaining ele-

ment number 93, but the re-

sults had been confusing
(see 1934).

Hahn and Meitner,
who had discovered protac-
tinium (see 1917), were in-
vestigating the matter.
Among other things, they
dissolved the bombarded
uranium and added a bar-
ium compound. When they
precipitated the barium,

they found that a fraction
of the radioactivity came
down with it.

This was what they
had hoped for. Barium is
chemically very like ra-
dium, so that anything that
precipitated barium would
also precipitate radium. In
fact, the bombardment of
uranium (element number
92) with neutrons mig
somehow 1
sion by uranium of fivo

 

 

   

alpha particles, which
would reduce the atomic

yer by four and so pro

 

ult in the emis-

duce an isotope of radium
(element number 88). Then,
since barium is similar to
radium but not identical,
the two could be separated
and the ide double
alpha-parti
would be proved. (That was

 

>mission

the idea behind adding the
barium in the first place.)

However, although the

 

barium di

 

precipitate ra-
dioactivity, the radioactiv-
could not be

ym it. Th

ity simply

   

separated i

 

more

puzzling than ever
