mained unnecessarily con-
fused in many ways during
that time.

lodine

A French chemist, Bernard
Courtois (1777—-1838), was
in the business of manufac-
turing potassium nitrate
(needed in gunpowder). He

1812
Catalysis

From prehistoric times,
human beings have known
that some substances can
bring about a change with-
out themselves being con-
sumed. In fact the
substances may increase in

 

got it from potassium car-
bonate (potash), which in
turn he got from seaweed.
As one of the steps to get
the potassium carbonate,
he heated the seaweed in
acid. One day in 1811 he
added too much acid and,
on heating, obtained a
beautiful violet vapor. On
condensing the vapor, he

quantity. The best-known
example is yeast, which can
spread its effect through
bread dough, to all intents
and purposes indefinitely
But then, yeast was eventu-
ally discovered to be alive.
It would be much more
surprising if something

 

produced dark, lustrous
crystals. He suspected it
might be a new element
and passed it on to other
chemists for confirmation.
It was a new element, and
Davy (see 1800) suggested
it be named iodine, from
the Greek word for "vio-
let.”

 

 

 

that was not alive and did
not reproduce itself were to
be capable of bringing
about a change without
being consumed.

A Russian chemist of
German birth, Gottlieb
ismund Constantin Kirch
hoff (1764—1833), boiled ¢

 

  
  
