from the pustules of people
with mild cases, to make
sure that the inoculated
person would get it. The
only trouble with that was
that you couldn’t always
tell—what was a mild case

1714

in one person might prove
to be a severe one, even a
deadly one, in the person
being inoculated. It was
very much like playing Rus-
sian roulette.

Nevertheless, such was

the fear of smallpox that,
for over three-fourths of a
century, many people sub-
mitted to such inoculation
(also called variolation from
variola, the medical term
for smallpox).

 

 

Mercury
Thermometer

As long as thermometers
were open to the air, like
those of Galileo (see 1592)
and Amontons (see 1699),
they were affected by air
pressure in one way or an-
other and were always lim-
ited in accuracy. The first
person to devise a closed
thermometer was Ferdi-
nand II de’ Medici (1610—
1670), who did so in 1654.
At first, sealed ther-

mometers used water or al-
cohol or mixtures of the
two, but these fluids pro-
duced vapors that intro-
duced pressure effects.
What's more, water didn't
expand and contract as
evenly with temperature as
was needed for good preci-
sion, while alcohol boiled
at too low a temperature.
The German physicist
Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit
(1686-1736) worked with
alcohol thermometers at
first, but in 1714 he made
the key advance of using

mercury. Mercury stays lig-
uid between quite low tem-
peratures and quite high
temperatures, produces
very little vapor, and ex-
pands and contracts quite
evenly with temperature
change. It is an ideal fluid
for thermometers and is
still commonly used for the
purpose today.

Fahrenheit made an-
other advance toward the
setting of good standard
temperatures. He noted the
height of the mercury col-
umn in a mixture of ice,
