870

 

Arctic Circle

The Vikings were sea-raid-
ers and the terrors of the
European coasts in the
ninth and tenth centuries,
but they were great sea-ex-
plorers as well. Among Eu-
ropeans, they were the
greatest since the Phoeni-
cians, thirteen centuries
earlier.

A Viking named Ottar
sailed northward in 870 out
of nothing more than sheer
curiosity, apparently. He
said he wanted to see how
far north land existed, and
whether it was populated.
He succeeded in rounding
the northern end of the
Scandinavian peninsula
(North Cape), and sailing
on eastward, he even-

tually entered the White
Sea.

When passing the
North Cape, Ottar was 125
miles north of the Arctic
Circle. He was the first
human being, as far as we
know, ever to cross the Arc-
tic Circle by sea.
