 

 

bolic reflector 31 feet in di-
ameter, and the radio
waves he received could be
reflected to a focus so that
their intensity could be
measured.

In this way, Reber dis-
covered points in the sky
that emitted radio waves
more strongly than did the
general background, and he
was the first to prepare a
radio map of the sky. Natu-
rally, Reber’s work was
primitive compared to
what was to come in suc-
ceeding decades, but for
several years he was the
only radio astronomer in
the world.

Virus Nucleic
Acid
Stanley had succeeded in
crystallizing tobacco mo-
saic virus and proving that
it was protein in nature
(see 1935). The question
was whether the virus was
entirely protein. Viruses are
indisputably living, and if
they consisted only of pro-
tein, it would follow that
protein molecules (if suffi-
ciently complex) were the
essence of life. Everything
else, even simpler proteins,
would be merely auxiliary
material.

In 1937, however, a
British plant pathologist,
Frederick Charles Bawden

(b. 1908), was able to show
that tobacco mosaic virus
contained, in addition to
protein, a small quantity of
ribonucleic acid (RNA).
Eventually, viruses gener-
ally were found to contain
cither RNA or DNA, which
means they are nucleopro-
tein rather than merely pro-
tein.

The fact that chromo-
somes are also nucleopro-
teins (containing DNA)
makes it seem that viruses
are chromosomes “on the
loose”" and that it is nucleo-
protein that is the essence

of life.

Citric Acid Cycle

Many biochemists had con-
tributed insights concern-
ing the metabolism of
carbohydrate, including
Harden (see 1904), Meyer-
hof (see 1913), and War-
burg (see 1926).
Szent-Gyorgyi (see
1928, Hexuronic Acid) had
found that any of four dif-
ferent four-carbon acids, if
added to tissue slices, stim-
ulated oxygen uptake. He
suspected that they must
play some role in carbohy-
drate metabolism.
Beginning in 1937, the
German-born British bio-
chemist Hans Adolf Krebs
(1900-1981) found two six-
carbon acids, including the
familiar citric acid, that

also played a role. He
worked out the details of a
cycle that began and ended
with citric acid. Sugar mol-
ecules entered the cycle,
and carbon dioxide mole-
cules emerged at the other
end, along with several
pairs of hydrogen atoms
that, through another chain
of reactions including cyto-
chromes (see 1924), were
united with oxygen to yield
the energy used by the
body.

This citric acid cycle is
often called the Krebs cycle
in honor of its discoverer,
and for this work, Krebs
was awarded a share of the
Nobel Prize for physiology
and medicine in 1953.

Niacin

Goldberger had shown that
pellagra was a vitamin-de-
ficiency disease (see 1915).
A disease of dogs called
blacktongue was the canine
equivalent of pellagra.

In 1937 the American
biochemist Conrad Arnold
Elvehjem (1901-1962) con-
sidered the problem. Euler-
Chelpin had shown that
Harden'’s coenzyme in-
cluded nicotinamide (see
1923). The enzyme
wouldn’t work without the
coenzyme, and the coen-
zyme wouldn’t work with-
out the nicotinamide
portion. Human beings,

 
