device was first called an
optical maser, but since it
could be described as light
amplification by stinuilated
emission of radiation, the
initials of that phrase were
used and it came to be
called a laser.

Lasers soon prolifer-
ated into many different
types, with many different
uses.

Proof of General
Relativity

The general theory of rela-
tivity, first advanced by
Einstein (see 1916), had
been confirmed in three
ways, all of them
astronomic and all of them
very borderline: (1) the ad-
vance of Mercury's perihe-
lion (see 1846), (2) the
bending of light in a gravi-
tational field (see 1919),
and (3) the reddening of
light in a gravitational field
(see 1925).

Now, thanks to the
Méssbauer effect (see 1958),
it was possible to test gen-
eral relativity in the labora-
tory. Suppose a beam of
monochromatic gamma
rays were shot down a shaft
from the top of a building
to the bottom. The Earth’s
gravitational field would be
very slightly stronger at the
bottom of the building than
at the top, since the bottom
is nearer the Earth’s center.

This strengthening of the
gravitational field would
serve to increase the wave-
length of the gamma rays,
according to general rela-
tivity. The strengthening of
the field and consequent in-
crease in wavelength would
be almost immeasurably
small but large enough to
cause the absorption of the
gamma rays by a crystal at
the bottom of the shaft to
decrease considerably.

This experiment, when
conducted in 1960, proved
to support general relativ-
ity (as have all experiments
and observations since that
time).

Standard Meter

When the metric system
was first established (see
1790), the basic standard of
length (the meter) was set
as 1/10,000,000 the distance
from the equator to the
North Pole. This distance
could not be established
with sufficient accuracy,
however, so the standard
meter was defined as the
distance between two
scratches on a rust-resis-
tant platinum and iridium
bar, which was kept in an
air-conditioned vault in a
Paris suburb, where it was
immune to change with
temperature alterations.
By 1960, however, sci-
entific advance made it pos-
sible to turn to something

far more constant. The Gen-
eral Conference of Weights
and Measures set the stan-
dard meter equal to
1,650,763.73 wavelengths of
one of the spectral lines of
an isotope of the rare gas
krypton. This gave the
meter a thousand times the
precision of the platinum-
iridium bar,

Integrated
o
Circuits
Transistors had been in ex-
istence fora dozen years
(see 1948), constantly being
made smaller and more re-
liable. By 1960 they could
be made so small that it
made no sense to try to han-
dle them as separate units.

Instead, small pieces of
thin silicon or some other
semiconductor, about a
quarter-inch square, were
etched with tiny transistor
circuits. These chips did the
work of many transistors
and were called integrated
circuits.

The use of integrated
circuits made computers
smaller, cheaper, and more
versatile. As time went on,
more and more circuits—
eventually thousands—
could be etched into a sin-
gle chip.

   
  
   
   
 
    
 
  
   
