COme inct with surpris-
ing suddenness.

For years scientists had
puzzled over that extinc-
tion and a variety of exp!
nations had been offered,
none of which had proved
really sz :tory. Now it

that the

be a coincidence. It had to
have some connection with
and it

of Earthâ€™s own iridium w
in its iron core, so that the

crust is.
Alvarez postulated,
therefore, that a large aster-

oid or com 1l mile
across, had struck Earth
sixty-five million y

fires, and
so on. In addition, it may
have splashed so much dust
into the upper atmosphere
that the radiation of the
Sun was cut
tended period of time. All
the ieties of disaster
could have brought about

ff for an ex-

enormous extinctions. (In
fact, the litany of dis
makes it hard to see how
any life at all could sur-
vive,)
This explanation for
the extinction of the din
et with consid-
m at fir

saurs w
erable

but the
piling up since, and many

now accept it.

Gluons

ange particle (

1935). Just as the electro

must un-
of a parti-
ious

, that they have never

been isolated as free parti-

energetic sub-
atomic-particle interac-
tions produced son
rudimentary indicatia
the production of gluons.

 
