basis for the internal-
combustion engines of
today.

Chemical
Thermodynamics

Thermodynamics, although
worked out originally
through the study of heat
(see 1850), applies to all
forms of energy. An Ameri-
can physicist, Josiah Wil-
lard Gibbs (1839—-1903),
applied it to chemical
change.

He wrote a series of pa-
pers on the subject that to-
taled four hundred pages
and appeared, over a two-
year period beginning in
1876, in The Transactions of
the Connecticut Academy of
Sciences. In the course of
his papers, he evolved the
modern concepts of free en-
ergy and chemical potential
as the driving force behind
chemical reactions.

In the papers, he also
considered equilibria (sin-
gular, equilibrium: the
point at which a system
comes to rest and there is
no further change) between
different phases (liguid,
solid, or gas), where one or
more components of a sys-
tem are involved. The num-
ber of ways (degrees of
freedom) in which tempera-
ture, pressure, or concentra-
tion can be varied in such

cases can be expressed by a
simple equation, which
Gibbs called the phase rule.
By the time he was
through, Gibbs had left lit-
tle more to do in what is
now called chemical thermo-
dynamics.

Bacterial
Cultivation

When an anthrax epidemic
struck the cattle in Silesia
(eastern Germany), a local
physician, Robert Koch
(1843-1910), grew inter-
ested. In 1876 he located
the particular bacterium
that caused anthrax in the
spleen of infected cattle
and transferred it to mice,
carrying the infection from
mouse to mouse and recov-
ering the same bacilli in
the end. More important
still, he learned to cultivate
the bacteria outside the liv-
ing body, using blood
serum at body tempera-
ture.

Then he learned to
make use of solid media for
growing bacteria—gelatin,
or a complex carbohydrate
called agar, which could be
obtained from seaweed.
When grown in such solid
media, the bacteria could
not move about easily, and
if the bacteria happened to
be isolated in one spot, they
would, by division and redi-

 

vision, give rise to a patch
of descendant bacteria with
noadmixture of outside va-
rieties. Bacteria could then
be transmitted to animals
or allowed to start new cul-
tures with the certainty
that only a particular
strain of bacteria was being
worked with.

In short, Pasteur's
germ theory was given
practical application by
Koch. Koch showed how
the causative bacteria
could be isolated, then used
to produce the disease, then
regained from the diseased
animal, and finally worked
with to find a prevention or
cure.

Cathode Rays

There was increasing inter-
est in the passage of elec-
tric currents through a
vacuum. In 1876 a German
physicist, Eugen Goldstein
(1850-1930), repeated the
work of Pliicker, nearly two
decades before (see 1858).
Goldstein thought the fluo-
rescence in the evacnated
tube seemed to form as
though a stream of radia-
tion had traveled from the
cathode (the negatively
charged electrode) to the
spot on the glass where the
fluorescence appeared. He
therefore described the phe-
nomenon as cathode rays.
This was the first indi-

 
