ear at longer intervals—
hence lower pitch.

Having done this in
1842, Doppler proceeded to
check the matter experi-
mentally a couple of years
later. For two days, a loco-
motive pulled a flat car
back and forth at different
speeds. On the car were
trumpeters sounding this
note or that, while on the
ground, musicians with a
sense of absolute pitch re-
corded what they heard.
Doppler verified his expla-
nation in this way.

The Doppler effect
turned out, in a few years,

 

to have enormous impor-
tance in connection with as-
tronomy.

Cranial Index

Blumenbach had divided
the human species into
“races,” largely on the
basis of skin color (see
1776). In 1842 the Swedish
anatomist Anders Adolf
Retzius (1796-1860) tried
to make a finer division
on the basis of something
more subtle.

He suggested using the
skull. The ratio of skull
width to skull length,

multiplied by 100, he called
the cranial index. A cranial
index of less than 80 was
dolichocephalic (Greek for
“long head"), while one of
over 80 was brachycephalic
(wide head).

In this way, Europeans
could be divided into Nor-
dics (tall and dolichoce-
phalic), Mediterraneans
(short and dolichocephalic),
and Alpines (short and
brachycephalic).

Actually, this was not a
very good system for divid-
ing the human species into
smaller groups. In fact, no
really satisfactory system
has been devised, and every
attempt has simply encour-
aged racism and ethnocen-
tricity. It is safer—and
better—to stop at the fact
that Homo sapiens is a sin-
gle species.
