themselves unmistakably
to be microfossils, or rem-
nants of simple cells. Some
were found in rocks as old
as 3,500 million years.

Consequently it ap-
peared that life arose no
later than a billion years
after the formation of the
Earth.

Protein
Synthesis

With the structure of pro-
teins known in detail in
some cases, thanks to the
work of scientists such as
Sanger (see 1952) and Per-
utz (see 1959), it became
possible to think of synthe-
sizing them too.

In 1965 the American
biochemist Robert Bruce
Merrifield succeeded in syn-
thesizing insulin. In that
same year, a Welsh bio-
chemist, David Phillips,
synthesized lysozyme.
