(a partly nitrated cellulose),
if dissolved in alcohol and
ether in which camphor
had also been dissolved,

would produce a hard solid
upon evaporation, which
would soften and become
malleable when heated. He

found no way of doing any-
thing commercial with it,
but he had discovered the
first synthetic plastic.

 

1856

 

Glycogen

Until now, starch had been
viewed as the plant’s way
of storing energy. Animals
tend to store it as fat (as
some plants do too), which
is a more compact form of
energy.

In 1856, however, the
French physiologist Claude
Bernard (1813—1878) dis-
covered a form of starch in
the mammalian liver. Be-
cause it was easily broken
down to glucose (the imme-
diate energy source in the
bloodstream), he called
it glycogen (Greek for
“glucose-producer”).

He showed that glyco-
gen was built up out of
blood glucose and acted as

a reserve store that could
be broken down to glucose
again when necessary
Whether glycogen was built
up or broken down de-
pended on the exact state of
the body, the energy re-
quirements of the various
tissues, the food supply in
the intestines, and so on.
The net result was that the
glycogen balance was so
maneuvered that the sugar
content in the blood re-
mained steady.

Until then, it was sup-
posed that plants built up
complex molecules (anabo-
lisin) and that animals tore
them down (catabolism).
Bernard’s work showed
that animals built up com-
plex molecules as well, and

as time went on, it ap-
peared that both plants and
animals built up and broke
down substances as needed.
What was different be-
tween them was that the
build-up in plants was
through solar energy, while
in animals, the build-up
was through chemical en-
ergy from food, the food
being obtained eventually,
if not directly, from plants

Steel

For over three thousand
years, steel had been
known to be the strongest
metal, but

steel was a difficult process

wnulacturing

 

First, iron came out of the
smelting furnace with a
