 

 

Polaroid

Nicol had made use of Ice-
land spar to produce an in-
strument that could be
used in the study of polar-
ized light (see 1829). Some
substitute for Iceland spar
that would be cheaper and
easier to work with would
have been welcome, but
none was known.

To be sure, there were
certain organic crystals
that behaved as Iceland
spar did, but they did not
readily produce crystals of
the proper size, and the
crystals would have been
far too fragile to work with
in any case.

An American inventor,
Edwin Herbert Land (b.
1909), had the idea that a
single crystal was not neces-

sary. A myriad of tiny crys-
tals would do if all were
oriented in the same direc-
tion.

In 1932 he devised
methods of aligning the
crystals and of then embed-
ding them in clear plastic.
When set, this served nicely
to keep them from drifting
out of alignment and made
their fragility irrelevant
The result was given the
trade name Polaroid, and it
quickly replaced Iceland
spar in scientific instru-
ments. It also came to be
used in automobile wind-
shields and in spectacles.

 

. .
Quinacrine

Malaria, a widespread dis-
case in the tropics and per-
haps the most debilitating

disease, on the whole, that
was suffered by the human
species, had been treated
with quinine for three cen-
turies (see 1642). Quinine
comes from the bark of a
tropical tree, however, and
the supply to the industrial
nations might easily be cut
off in wartime. The search
was on for a substitute

The first satisfactory
substitute to be found was
quin

   

  

crine (also called Ata-
brin), first developed in Ger-
many and established as a
successful antimalarial in
1932. When net too many
years afterward, war did in-
deed disrupt the quinine
supply, the existence of
quinacrine made it possible
for troaps to operate in
tropical regions.

 

 
