1874

 

 

Gallium

The discovery of new ele-
ments continued after Men-
deleyev announced his
periodic table of elements
(see 1869). In 1874 the
French chemist Paul-Emile
Lecoq de Boisbaudran
(1838—-1912) found a zinc
ore that displayed hitherto
unknown spectral lines. He
extracted the new element
and named it gallium, from
the old Latin word for the
area that became France
after the fall of the Roman
Empire.

Once the discovery was
announced, Mendeleyev
pointed out at once that the
element was his eka-alumi-
num. He was right, The
characteristics and proper-
ties possessed by gallium

 

were exactly what he had
predicted for eka-alumi-
num. The validity of the pe-
riodic table could not
thereafter be denied.

Tetrahedral
Carbon Atom

Kekule’s way of writing the
formulas of organic mole-
cules (see 1858), now fifteen
years old, was essentially
two-dimensional. The four
valence bonds of the carbon
atom were directed toward
the four angles of a square.
That was inadequate for
some purposes. For in-
stance, some organic mole-
cules, in solution, rotated
the plane of polarized light.
That meant the molecules
must be asymmetric in one

way or another, but the
asymmetry wasn't visible
in the Kekule formulas.

In 1874 a Dutch physi-
cal chemist, Jacobus Hen-
dricus van't Hoff (1852—
1911), advanced a three-di-
mensional representation
of organic molecules. In his
system, the four bonds of
the carbon atom pointed to-
ward the vertices of a tetra-
hedron, so that the atom
could rest on three of the
bonds as though it were a
splayed-out three-legged
stool, with the fourth bond
pointing straight upward,
each bond equidistant from
the other three.

This tetrahedral carbon
atom produced the neces-
sary asymmetry. If four dif-
ferent groups were
attached to the four valence
