1924

 

 

Australo-
pithecus

Until this point, the most
primitive hominid known
was Pithecanthropus
erectus, discovered by Du-
bois (see 1890). Although
this fossil had a brain only
half the size of a modern
human being's, it was still
comparatively advanced.
Therefore, it was consid-
ered very likely that there
were earlier and more prim-
itive hominids.

In 1924 a small skull
that, except for its size,
looked human was discov-
ered in a limestone quarry
in South Africa. An Austra-
lian-born South African an-
thropologist, Raymond

Arthur Dart (1893-1988),
examined it and recognized
it as a primitive hominid.
He called it Australopi-
thecus, which is Greek for
“southern ape.”

It was not an ape, how-
ever, for subsequent discov-
eries of several species of
such australopithecines
showed that they walked
upright and were closer to
modern humans than to any
apes, modern or past. They
are the earliest hominids,
as far as we can now tell.

Bose-Einstein
Statistics
In 1924 the Indian physicist

Satyendra Nath Bose
(1894-1974) worked out a

statistical method of han-
dling certain subatomic
particles. Einstein was en-
thusiastic about this and
generalized Bose's work the
next year.

The resulting Bose-Ein-
stein statistics may be used
with any of a group of sub-
atomic particles called bos-
ons in Bose's honor. The
best-known example of a
boson is the photon.

lonosphere

Heaviside and Kennelly
had predicted the existence
of regions in the upper at-
mosphere that contained
charged ions and that re-
flected radio waves (see
1902).

Details concerning this
