dwindle, and the last one
died in 1627. This was an
example of how easy it is
for large and magnificent

animals to vanish. They
had not been killed in

anger. There was merely no

room left for them. The
room was needed for their
domesticated descendants.

 

1628

 

Blood
Circulation

The idea of Galen (see 180)
that the heart was a single
pump and that there were
pores in the thick muscular
wall separating the right
ventricle from the left ven-
tricle was not universally
accepted.

In 1242 an Arabic
scholar, Ibn an-Nafis
(d. 1288), wrote a book in
which he suggested that the
right and left ventricles
were totally separate
Blood was pumped out of
the right ventricle into ar-
teries that led it to the
lung. There, in the lungs,
the arteries divided into
smaller and smaller ves-

 

sels, within which the
blood picked up air from
the lungs. The vessels were
then collected into larger
and larger vessels until
they were brought back to
the left ventricle from
which the blood was
pumped out to the body
generally.

In this way, the double
pump was explained. One
pump was needed for the
lungs and aeration; the
other for the rest of the
body. An-Nafis had grasped
the lesser circulation. How-
ever, his book was not
known to the West until
1924, and it had no effect
on later developments.

In 1553 a Spanish phy-
sician, Miguel Serveto,
known as Michael Servetus

(1511-1553), published a
book in which he too de-
scribed the lesser circula-
tion. The major part of the
book, however, dealt with
the Servetus's theological
views, which were Unitar-
ian. Servetus, having ven-
tured into Geneva, which
was ruled by his deadly
enemy, John Calvin (see
1541), was taken into cus-
tody and burned at the
stake.

Calvin then attempted
to destroy all copies of
Servetusâ€™s book, and it
wasn't till 1694 that some
unburned copies were
found.

In 1559 an Italian
anatomist, Realdo Colombo
(15162-1559), became the
third person to understand,
