 

 

1953

 

The Double

.
Helix
The work of Chargaff and
Franklin (see 1952) had sup-
plied the information neces-
sary to work out the
structure of DNA. The key
conceptual step was then
taken by the English physi-
cist Francis Harry Compton
Crick (b. 1916) and the
American biochemist
James Dewey Watson (b.
1928). They made use of a
key X-ray diffraction photo-
graph taken by Franklin
and made available to
them by her boss, the New
Zealand physicist Maurice
Hugh Frederick Wilkins (b.
1916), apparently without
Franklinâ€™s knowledge or
permission.

In 1953 Watson and
Crick suggested that DNA
consisted of two chains of
nucleotides arranged as a
double helix, with the pu-
rine and pyrimidine bases
facing each other and the

 

phosphate links on the out-
side. Each two-ringed pu-
rine faced a one-ringed
pyrimidine, so that the

space between the two
strands was constant. Ade-
nines and thymines were

pajred, as were guanines
ik

 
