 

1900

 

Quanta

Kirchhoff had pointed out
that a black body (one that
absorbed all electromag-
netic radiation that fell on
it) would radiate at all
wavelengths if heated (see
1860). Thus, a hollow body
with a small hole in it
would absorb all the radia-
tion that entered through
the hole, for virtually none
of it would be reflected and
find its way out again. If
such a body was heated, ra-
diation would therefore
emerge from the hole at all
wavelengths, with very lit-
tle at the extremes and
with a peak at some inter-
mediate value. The higher
the temperature, the
shorter the wavelength of
the peak value.

A number of physicists
tried to work out mathe-
matical equations for the
distribution of wavelengths
in such black body radia-

tion. Rayleigh and Wien
(see 1894) both advanced
equations in 1900, but Ray-
leigh'’s worked well only for
the long-wavelength half,
and Wien's only for the
short-wavelength half. Nei-
ther one could work out an
equation that gave the dis-
tribution across the board.

Then a German physi-
cist, Max Karl Ernst Lud-
wig Planck (1858-1947),
produced an equation that
did just that. In order to de-
rive that equation, he had
to assume that energy was
given off not continuously
but in discrete pieces, and
that the size of the piece
was inversely proportional
to the wavelength. Thus,
since violet light had half
the wavelength of red light,
violet light would be deliv-
ered in pieces that were
twice the size, and there-
fore twice the energy con-
tent, of red light.

Planck called the bits

 

of energy quanta (singular,
quantum, a Latin word
meaning “how much?
worked out the relationship
between energy and wave-
length (or energy and fre-
quency, since frequency is 1
divided by the wavelength),
making use of a very small
value called Planck’s con-
stant, which represents the
“graininess” of energy.
Since Planck’s constant is
exceedingly small, energy
has a very fine grain in-
deed, and it is not notice-
able in most circumstances,
so that the laws of thermo-
dynamics could be deduced
as though energy were a
continuous fluid without
grain. The problem of black
body radiation was the first
in which the graininess had
to be taken into account

There was no evidence,
at first, for the existence of
quanta, except for the fact
that it made the equation
for black body radiation

 
