750 B.C.

 

Arches

The easiest way to build an
opening is to set up two ver-
tical pieces of wood, stone,
or other material and then
balance a horizontal piece
above the two.

The horizontal piece,
unsupported in the middle,
can break with relative
ease, and the weakness in-

creases as it grows longer.
If instead one uses rela-
tively small pieces ar-
ranged in a vertical
semicircle so that each
piece helps support the
piece above, and if one uses
mortar to make the pieces
adhere to each other, one
has an arch.

An arch can span a
much wider distance and

carry a much heavier load
than a horizontal piece can.

Small, primitive arches
were used as early as Su-
merian times, but a true
arch, properly built for
maximum strength,
showed up for the first time
among the Etruscans in
750 B.C.
