1866

 

 

Dynamite

During the twenty years
since nitroglycerine had
been discovered by Sobrero
(see 1847), it had been used
in blasting roads through
mountains, digging canals,
and laying foundations. It
fulfilled such tasks admira-
bly, but it was such a
touchy explosive that it
sometimes blew up at the
wrong time, destroying fac-
tories and killing people as
well.

The Swedish inventor
Alfred Bernhard Nobel
(1833—-1896) was a member
of a family that produced
nitroglycerine and had lost
a brother in an explosion.
He therefore sought a way
of taming nitroglycerine. In
1866 he came across a cask

of nitroglycerine that had
leaked. The liquid had been
absorbed by the packing,
however, which consisted
of diatomaceous earth, or
kieselguhr (made up of the
siliceous skeletons of myri-
ads of microscopic dia-
toms).

The soaked kieselguhr
remained dry, and Nobel
experimented with the mix-
ture. He found that the ni-
troglycerine could not be
set off without a detonating
cap once it had been mixed
with kieselguhr. Short of
that, the mixture could be
handled virtually with
impunity. Once set off,
though, the nitroglycerine
in the kieselguhr retained
its shattering quality.

Nobel called the combi-
nation dynamite (from the

Greek word for “power”),
and it replaced free nitro-
glycerine, initiating the era
of safe use of explosives in
construction. (At his death,
Nobel left his estate of
nearly ten million dollars
for the establishment of the
annual Nobel prizes.)

Clinical
Thermometer

Doctors had long recog-
nized the importance of
knowing a patient’s temper-
ature, but the thermome-
ters they were forced to use
were long, clumsy, and re-
quired up to 20 minutes to
register results. A British

_physician, Thomas Clifford

Allbutt (1836—1925), de-
vised a small thermometer,
