1607

 

 

Jamestown

Since the defeat of the
Spanish Armada (see 1589)
the English had been trying
to make settlements over-
seas. They had succeeded in
Newfoundland but had
failed at Roanoke.

Finally, on May 24,
1607, a party of English
settlers, with John Smith
(ca. 1580-1631) the most
prominent member,
landed in what is now the
state of Virginia. They
moved up the James
River (named for James I

of England) and founded
Jamestown,

This was the first per-
manent English settlement
in the territory of what is
now the United States.

 

1608

 

Telescope

After the invention of the
microscope (see 1590), it
wouldn't have taken much
to work out lens combina-
tions that would magnify
distant objects, or make
them appear closer.

The discovery seems to
have come about in 1608
through accident. Hans Lip-
pershey (ca. 1570-1619), a
Dutch spectacle-maker, had
an apprentice who was

playing with lenses during
an idle moment and found
that if he held two lenses in
front of his eyes, one at a
distance from the other,
and looked through both,
he saw a distant church
steeple that seemed consid-
erably closer than it was,
and upside down, too.
Startled, he told his
master, who grasped the
importance of the discovery
at once. Lippershey
mounted the lenses in a

tube that placed them at
the proper distance from
each other and had the first
primitive zelescope (from
Greek words meaning “to
see far”).

The Netherlands was
still in rebellion against
Spain, and Lippershey real-
ized that a telescope would
be an important war
weapon, making it possible
to see the approach of
enemy ships or troops be-
fore they could be made out
