1923

 

Waves as
Particles

Einstein had pointed out
that electromagnetic radia-
tion could be viewed as hav-
ing particle aspects, but it
was still necessary to ob-
serve phenomena that
could best be explained in
that way. The shorter the
wavelength of electromag-
netic radiation, the greater
the energy content of the
quantum and the more pro-
nounced the particle aspect
is likely to be. It would
seem a good idea, then, to
work with X rays in this re-
spect.

In 1923 the American
physicist Arthur Holly
Compton (1892-1962)
showed that X rays scat-
tered by matter tended to
lengthen their waves. This
was called the Compton ef-
fect.

Compton was able to
account for this by presum-
ing that when a quantum of
X rays struck an electron,
the electron recoiled, sub-
tracting some energy from
the quantum and therefore
increasing its wavelength.
This was a clear demonstra-
tion of the particle aspects
of an energetic wave, and
indeed, it was Compton

who now began to refer to
such waves in their particle
aspects as photons.

For this work Compton
was awarded a share of the
Nobel Prize for physics in
1927.

Particles as
Waves

Even as Compton was dem-
onstrating that waves
showed particle properties
(see above), the French
physicist Louis-Victor-
Pierre-Raymond de Broglie
(1892â€”-1987) was main-
taining that, from theoreti-
cal considerations, every
particle ought also to have
an associated matter-wave
and therefore show wave
properties.

The wavelength of such
matter-waves would be in-
versely related to the mo-
mentum of the particle
(that is, its mass times its
velocity). A massive parti-
cle such as a baseball, or
even a proton, would have
matter-waves of such ultra-
short wavelengths that they
would be difficult or impos-
sible to detect. Electrons,
however, should have mat-
ter-waves with wavelengths
similar to those of X rays.

Increasingly, after the

work of Compton and de
Broglie, physicists began to
take the view that all ob-
jects had both wave and
particle aspects. Where en-
ergy was low (and mass is a
form of energy), the wave
aspect would predominate,
and where energy was high,
the particle aspect would
predominate.

To be sure, de Broglie's
work was strictly theoreti-
cal. An actual demonstra-
tion of matter-waves would
not come for several years,
after which de Broglie
would be awarded a share
of the Nobel Prize for phys-
ics in 1929.

Debye-Huckel
Equations

When Arrhenius had
worked out the theory of
electrolytic dissociation
(see 1884), it seemed clear
that some compounds dis-
sociated only partially on
solution. As crystal struc-
ture was elucidated by X-
ray scattering (see 1912),
however, it appeared that
many compounds existed
in totally dissociated form
even in crystals. Why, then,
should they seem to be only
partially dissociated in so-
lution?

 
