 

1658

 

Red Blood
Corpuscles

Microscopes of sorts had
been in existence for half a
century, but they had not
been very good. They mag-
nified but slightly and were
usually not perfectly in
focus. It was not till the
1650s that microscopes im-

proved in quality to the
point where they were use-
ful in studying the minu-
tiae of living things.

The Dutch naturalist
Jan Swammerdam (1637-
1680) studied insects under
the microscope and col-
lected some three thousand
species of them, so that he
is considered the father of
modern entomology

Swammerdam'’s most
famous discovery, however,
made in 1658, was the red
blood corpuscle. Present in
the bloodstream in the bil-
lions, red blood corpuscles
carry the chemical that ab-
sorbs oxygen from the air
in the lungs, though this
was not known till much
later.

 

 

1659

 

Syrtis Major

The telescope, in con-
verting planets from points
of light to small orbs, made
it possible to see markings
on some of them.

Venus, which at times

approaches Earth more
closely than any other
planet, remained feature-
less, because it seemed to
have a heavy cloud layer.
Mars, next closest, was
different. In 1659, Huygens
(see 1656, Saturn’s Ring)

made out a dark, triangular
marking he called Syrtis
Major (large bog). It wasn't
a bog any more than the
Moon's “seas” were seas,
but it was one marking that
future astronomers contin-

 

ued to see.

 
