 

1706

 

 

.
Carriage

.
Springs
All conveyances, from
sedan chairs to carriages,
were subject to the uneven-
nesses of the road, jolting
passengers as every projec-
tion or rut was encoun-
tered. It was not till 1706
that springs were used in
carriages to absorb some of
the shock. To be sure, this
induced swaying, which
has its unpleasantness, too,
but is undoubtedly prefera-

1707

ble to the lurchings and
bangings that existed be-
fore springs. The devising
of ever-more-efficient
springs and, just as im-
portant, smoother roads
gave land transportation
less the feeling of being a
devil’s playground.

Static Electricity

Guericke's ball of sulfur
(see 1660) was not an ex-
tremely efficient static-
electricity generator. In
1706, however, the English

physicist Francis Hauksbee
(ca. 1666—1713) con-
structed a glass sphere
turned by a crank, which,
through friction, could
build up a more intense
electric charge than sulfur
could. This greatly stimu-
lated further experimenta-
tion with static electricity.

 

Pulse Watch

With the development of
the pendulum clock by Huy-
gens (see 1656) and the hair-

and watches, but second
hands had not yet come in,
Then in 1707, the En-
glish physician John Floyer
(1649—1734) devised a pulse

spring by Hooke,
timepieces could tell time
to the nearest minute. By
the late 1600s, minute
hands were added to clocks
