The Chinese, living in a

C r climate and wea
shoes, needed a wider
into which the whole
might be thrust. By 300,
such stirrtps (from an old
Teutonic word meaning
“climbing rope,” beca

400

Wheelbarrows

A wheelbarrow is essen-
tially a one-w} d cart,
with the wheel far in front
so that it acts as the ful-
crum and, by lever action,
allows considerable
weights of material to be
lifted clear of the ground—

they coul

oneself up on a tall horse
were made of met 1
were wide enou

the foot to with

quickly in case

The stirrup m

possible for a rider to sit

more than could be carried
by a human being alone. It
does not require the use of
an animal, and it can be
maneuyered
narrow lanes ar
Str

sily alor
crowded

It was invented in
China about 400 (perhaps
considerably earlier) but

nrmiy i

strike

spear or swor

Chinese, the notion

metal stirrup spread
central-Asian nomads and

from there westward

did not reach Europe for

centuries. It is one of those
inventions that, in hind
ight, seems so obvious that

one wond why it wasn't
invented the instant the
wheel was—but hindsight

cheap.

 
